hey guys I'm April McKinney and I'm
excited today to show you a recipe for
General Tso's chicken you've probably
seen this on many of the Chinese takeout
restaurants it's on almost every menu
there's restaurants and usually it's
deep fried then tossed in a really thick
syrupy sauce it tastes really good but
it's not very good for you so I came up
with a recipe that's a lot lighter but
it still tastes great it's really easy
and this is one of those recipes you
know I think all the recipes that I that
I do from videos are good or else I
wouldn't make a video of them but this
is one that I really felt good about as
soon as I ate it I thought okay this is
a home run so if you don't try any
recipes you need to try this one so I
think you'll really like it so now I'm
going to mix up the sauce and what I'm
going to start with is actually a
quarter cup of low-sodium chicken broth
or stock either one works and if you
didn't have chicken stock you could use
water to replace this and won't be quite
as flavorful but it will still work the
next thing I'm going to do is two
tablespoons of rice vinegar you can find
this in the Asian section or the ethnic
section of the grocery store or it may
be in the vinegar section just depends
on what store you're at they're really
easy to find very inexpensive and a
great ingredient for Asian cooking the
next thing is two tablespoons of
low-sodium soy sauce I always use the
low-sodium because soy sauce has a ton
of salt in it and I like soy sauce I
don't like to not use very much this way
I can still use you know two tablespoons
and not worry too much about the salt
content the next thing I have is a
tablespoon of brown sugar and this is
just going to add a little bit of
sweetness because your most Asian food
does have a little bit of sweetness and
hotness and a sourness it's kind of get
all these different flavor components so
we do need a little bit of that and the
brown sugar is going to be great because
it's got a really rich flavor more than
just a white sugar would so we don't
have to use quite as much the other
thing I'm going to do is I've got two
cloves of garlic that minced up I'm just
going to put those right in here gonna
add a lot of flavor okay and now a pinch
of red pepper flakes probably about a
1/8 to 1/4 of a teaspoon depends on how
spicy you like it General Tso's chicken
is usually sort of spicy so I like to do
about 1/4 TSP of the red pepper flakes
all right the next thing is kind of an
interesting ingredient this is actually
fresh ginger it's ground up normally you
know with like a jarred garlic or
something I don't really recommend using
those because they don't taste this
fresh but for ginger because I only use
it really rarely usually I use a little
piece of it and then end up throwing the
whole thing away this comes in handy and
it still tastes pretty good so I'm going
to do about 2 teaspoons of this ground
ginger plus it's a lot easier to use
this than to peel and mince up ginger so
let's just get this whisked up and this
is really our sauce the only thing I'm
going to add is about half of these
scallions the rest I'm just going to use
for a garnish on top of the chicken and
that's perfect it's easy as that really
simple easy to find the ingredients so
that parts done the next thing we want
to do is we're obviously we're not going
to deep-fry this your probe a can see
probably anything deep fried on my
recipes so what I am going to do now is
I'm still going to give it a little bit
of a crust and it's gonna be really easy
what I have is a cup of regular
all-purpose flour I've got a pound and a
half of chicken breast here and you can
see the size they're about maybe a half
inch cubes of chicken and I just cut up
if I can get these in here without
spilling them there we go
perfect I'll just seal this up I love to
use the plug bags
this kind of thing we give your SPO it
away you don't worry about cleaning it
and then you're just going to give this
shape all right
each of these are coated with a little
bit of the flour now and so what I'm
going to do is head on over to the stove
and I'll show you how to put this all
together all right so here I have a
large skillet I've got a tablespoon of
canola oil that has been heated up it's
over medium-high heat I really want this
skillet to be nice and hot because I
want to get this fizzle I want to get
make sure that that flour gets nice and
brown because we want to have that fried
effect on this chicken even though we're
obviously not frying it and it is going
to be a lot healthier than other
versions okay as you can see I'm sort of
starting to turn these over and what you
want is just to have a slight golden
color about like that that little golden
color and then you can turn it right
over on the other side ok b.split
perfect they've got a nice color to them
on all sides it really sort of forms a
nice crust that is going to make this
tape like the real thing let's take this
right out and then we'll add in our
sauce and I'm actually going to cook it
for a minute or so just to kind of get
it heated up and let the garlic soften a
little bit and then we'll add back in
the chicken ok sauce is in now let's get
the chicken back in and what I'm going
to do is just begin to toss this around
and that sauce it's going to thicken
because the flour will put on the
outside of the chicken we don't have to
use corn cornstarch or anything because
the flour is going to thicken up that
sauce and I'm just going to toss it
around while it's on about medium heat
until everything is coated and all the
chicken is cooked through alright our
General Tso's chicken is done so I'm
just going to put it in this little
serving dish and that way
so it looks great and you looking at
that you would think this is not a very
healthy dish but actually it is really
light and I promise you it tastes
fantastic almost a bit of stuff from the
restaurant and it really it tastes
better to me because you know you're not
eating just complete crap you're eating
something that's really good for you so
I'm going to sprinkle these scallions
that I reserved right over the top to
make it look pretty just like they do
with the restaurant this is something
fun to do you can make this you see it's
really quick to do you can serve with
some brown rice and maybe some steamed
broccoli or snap peas and you've got
just a Chinese meal that's really
healthy and easy to do you can feel
great about so I've got to get a taste
of this I cannot wait any longer love
this stuff mmm there's a little spicy
it's a little sweet it certainly doesn't
taste like it's healthy so I think
you're really gonna like this give it a
try and
and it's spelled TSO so if you like me
you've probably gone through a lot of
variations of how you say it sometimes I
used to say general so swim with a tee
in front it's sometimes general sounds
I've just gone all through the
vocabulary with this word but it is
actually general tso's know T the T is
silent so just a little tip for you next
time you order it